MongoDB.md, before:

## WAL-G for MongoDB

**Interface of Mongo now is unstable**

You can use wal-g as a tool for encrypting, compressing Mongo backups and push/fetch them to/from storage without saving it on your filesystem.

Development
-----------
### Installing
To compile and build the binary for Mongo:

```
go get github.com/wal-g/wal-g
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/wal-g/wal-g
make install
make deps
make mongo_build
```
Users can also install WAL-G by using `make install`. Specifying the GOBIN environment variable before installing allows the user to specify the installation location. On default, `make install` puts the compiled binary in `go/bin`.
```
export GOBIN=/usr/local/bin
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/wal-g/wal-g
make install
make deps
make mongo_install
```

Configuration
-------------

* `WALG_MONGO_OPLOG_END_TS`

To set time [RFC3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) for recovery point.

* `WALG_MONGO_OPLOG_DST`

To place oplogs in the specified directory during stream-fetch.

Usage
-----

WAL-G mongo extension currently supports these commands:

* ``stream-fetch``

When fetching backup's stream, the user should pass in the name of the backup. It returns an encrypted data stream to stdout, you should pass it to a backup tool that you used to create this backup.
```
wal-g stream-fetch example_backup | mongorestore --archive --oplogReplay
```
WAL-G can also fetch the latest backup using:

```
wal-g stream-fetch LATEST | mongorestore --archive --oplogReplay
```

* ``stream-push``

Command for compressing, encrypting and sending backup from stream to storage.

```
wal-g stream-push
```

Variable _WALG_STREAM_CREATE_COMMAND_ is required for use stream-push 
(eg. ```mongodump --archive --oplog```)

* ``oplog-push``

Command for sending oplogs to storage by CRON.

```
wal-g oplog-push
```

Commit message:

Split stream fetch command (#458)
* Split stream fetch command for mysql & mongo

* Update readme & add tests

* Fix review

MongoDB.md, after:

## WAL-G for MongoDB

**Interface of Mongo now is unstable**

You can use wal-g as a tool for encrypting, compressing Mongo backups and push/fetch them to/from storage without saving it on your filesystem.

Development
-----------
### Installing
To compile and build the binary for Mongo:

```
go get github.com/wal-g/wal-g
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/wal-g/wal-g
make install
make deps
make mongo_build
```
Users can also install WAL-G by using `make install`. Specifying the GOBIN environment variable before installing allows the user to specify the installation location. On default, `make install` puts the compiled binary in `go/bin`.
```
export GOBIN=/usr/local/bin
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/wal-g/wal-g
make install
make deps
make mongo_install
```

Configuration
-------------

* `WALG_MONGO_OPLOG_END_TS`

To set time [RFC3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) for recovery point.

* `WALG_MONGO_OPLOG_DST`

To place oplogs in the specified directory during backup-fetch.

Usage
-----

WAL-G mongo extension currently supports these commands:

* ``backup-fetch``

When fetching backup's stream, the user should pass in the name of the backup. It returns an encrypted data stream to stdout, you should pass it to a backup tool that you used to create this backup.
```
wal-g backup-fetch example_backup | mongorestore --archive --oplogReplay
```
WAL-G can also fetch the latest backup using:

```
wal-g backup-fetch LATEST | mongorestore --archive --oplogReplay
```


* ``oplog-fetch``

When fetching oplog's, the user should specify the name of the backup starting with which to take an oplog and time in RFC3339 format for PITR
```
wal-g oplog-fetch --since "backupname" --until "2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00"
```

Both keys are optional. Default value for --since flag is 'LATEST'. If --until flag is not specified, its value will be set to time.Now()

* ``backup-push``

Command for compressing, encrypting and sending backup from stream to storage.

```
wal-g backup-push
```

Variable _WALG_STREAM_CREATE_COMMAND_ is required for use backup-push 
(eg. ```mongodump --archive --oplog```)

* ``oplog-push``

Command for sending oplogs to storage by CRON.

```
wal-g oplog-push
```
