MySQL.md, before:

## WAL-G for MySQL

**Interface of MySQL now is unstable**

You can use wal-g as a tool for encrypting, compressing MySQL backups and push/fetch them to/from storage without saving it on your filesystem.

Development
-----------
### Installing
To compile and build the binary for MySQL:

```
go get github.com/wal-g/wal-g
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/wal-g/wal-g
make install
make deps
make mysql_build
```
Users can also install WAL-G by using `make install`. Specifying the GOBIN environment variable before installing allows the user to specify the installation location. On default, `make install` puts the compiled binary in `go/bin`.
```
export GOBIN=/usr/local/bin
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/wal-g/wal-g
make install
make deps
make mysql_install
```

Configuration
-------------

* `WALG_MYSQL_DATASOURCE_NAME`

To configure the connection string for MySQL. Format ```user:password@host/dbname```

* `WALG_MYSQL_BINLOG_DST`

To place binlogs in the specified directory during backup-fetch.

* `WALG_MYSQL_BINLOG_SRC`

To configure directory with binlogs for ```binlog-push```.

* `WALG_MYSQL_BINLOG_END_TS`

To set time [RFC3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) for recovery point.

* `WALG_MYSQL_SSL_CA`

To use SSL, a path to file with certificates should be set to this variable.


Usage
-----

WAL-G mysql extension currently supports these commands:

* ``backup-fetch``

When fetching backup's stream, the user should pass in the directory to store backup and the name of the backup. It returns an encrypted data stream to stdout, you should pass it to a backup tool that you used to create this backup.
```
wal-g backup-fetch example_backup | xbstream -x -C mysql_datadir
```
WAL-G can also fetch the latest backup using:

```
wal-g backup-fetch  LATEST | xbstream -x -C mysql_datadir
```

Both keys are optional. Default value for --since flag is 'LATEST'. If --until flag is not specified, its value will be set to time.Now()

* ``backup-push``

Command for compressing, encrypting and sending backup from stream to storage.

```
wal-g backup-push
```

Variable _WALG_STREAM_CREATE_COMMAND_ is required for use backup-push 
(eg. ```xtrabackup --backup --stream=xbstream --datadir=mysql_datadir```)

* ``binlog-push``

Command for sending binlogs to storage by CRON.

```
wal-g binlog-push
```

When fetching binlog's, the user should specify the name of the backup starting with which to take an binlog and time in RFC3339 format for PITR
```
wal-g binlog-fetch --since "backupname" --until "2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00"
```

Commit message:

Added optional USE_LZO condition (for pg_build) LZO decompression can be enabled via USE_LZO for any database engine Removed excess double quotes in Makefile LIBSODIUM_TAG variable definition

MySQL.md, after:

## WAL-G for MySQL

**Interface of MySQL now is unstable**

You can use wal-g as a tool for encrypting, compressing MySQL backups and push/fetch them to/from storage without saving it on your filesystem.

Development
-----------
### Installing
To compile and build the binary for MySQL:

Optional:

- To build with libsodium, just set `USE_LIBSODIUM` environment variable.
- To build with lzo decompressor, just set `USE_LZO` environment variable.
```
go get github.com/wal-g/wal-g
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/wal-g/wal-g
make install
make deps
make mysql_build
```
Users can also install WAL-G by using `make install`. Specifying the GOBIN environment variable before installing allows the user to specify the installation location. On default, `make install` puts the compiled binary in `go/bin`.
```
export GOBIN=/usr/local/bin
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/wal-g/wal-g
make install
make deps
make mysql_install
```

Configuration
-------------

* `WALG_MYSQL_DATASOURCE_NAME`

To configure the connection string for MySQL. Format ```user:password@host/dbname```

* `WALG_MYSQL_BINLOG_DST`

To place binlogs in the specified directory during backup-fetch.

* `WALG_MYSQL_BINLOG_SRC`

To configure directory with binlogs for ```binlog-push```.

* `WALG_MYSQL_BINLOG_END_TS`

To set time [RFC3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) for recovery point.

* `WALG_MYSQL_SSL_CA`

To use SSL, a path to file with certificates should be set to this variable.


Usage
-----

WAL-G mysql extension currently supports these commands:

* ``backup-fetch``

When fetching backup's stream, the user should pass in the directory to store backup and the name of the backup. It returns an encrypted data stream to stdout, you should pass it to a backup tool that you used to create this backup.
```
wal-g backup-fetch example_backup | xbstream -x -C mysql_datadir
```
WAL-G can also fetch the latest backup using:

```
wal-g backup-fetch  LATEST | xbstream -x -C mysql_datadir
```

Both keys are optional. Default value for --since flag is 'LATEST'. If --until flag is not specified, its value will be set to time.Now()

* ``backup-push``

Command for compressing, encrypting and sending backup from stream to storage.

```
wal-g backup-push
```

Variable _WALG_STREAM_CREATE_COMMAND_ is required for use backup-push 
(eg. ```xtrabackup --backup --stream=xbstream --datadir=mysql_datadir```)

* ``binlog-push``

Command for sending binlogs to storage by CRON.

```
wal-g binlog-push
```

When fetching binlog's, the user should specify the name of the backup starting with which to take an binlog and time in RFC3339 format for PITR
```
wal-g binlog-fetch --since "backupname" --until "2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00"
```
